README.md, before:

## Udacity Data Scientist Nano Degree

Keeping a working folder for projects of [Udacity's Data Scientist Nano Degree program](https://de.udacity.com/course/data-scientist-nanodegree--nd025). So far completed:

1. **Supervised Learning Project** - Predicting donors for fictitious CharityML organization. Includes a short section for feature exploration. Fits Random Forest Classifier, Decision Tree, and Support Vector Machine as model candidates. Final model is chosen based on its f-score and optimized through GridSearch before making predictions.

2. **Deep Learning Project** - Uses transfer learning to retrain a model and predict the names of 102 different flowers based on image inputs. Includes a command line interface to classify new images as provided by the user.

3. **Unsupervised Learning Projects** - The data and design for this project were provided by Arvato Financial Services. Applies unsupervised learning techniques on demographic and spending data for a sample of German households. Preprocessed the data, applied dimensionality reduction techniques, and implemented clustering algorithms to segment customers with the goal of optimizing customer outreach for a mail order company.

3. **Disaster Response Pipeline Project** - This project is a web app to aid disaster relief workers by assigning text messages up to 36 different labels related to its content. The web app also displays visualizations of the training data used to train the algorithm. Under the hood the web app is using a random forest algorithm with varying performance by label. Also included are a script to load, clean, and save the input data provided by FigureEight and another script to retrain the classifier.

Commit message:

updated readme with better project descriptions and images

README.md, after:

## Udacity Data Scientist Nano Degree

Keeping a working folder for projects of [Udacity's Data Scientist Nano Degree program](https://de.udacity.com/course/data-scientist-nanodegree--nd025). So far completed:

1. **Supervised Learning Project** - This project tackles predicting likely donors based on demographic features for the fictitious CharityML organization. Includes a short section for feature exploration, fits multiple candidate models (Random Forest Classifier, Decision Tree, Support Vector Machine, and AdaBoost) and picks the final model based on its f-score before optimizing via GridSearch and making final predictions.

![feature importance](images/feature_importance_adaboost.png)


2. **Deep Learning Project** - This Jupyter notebook illustrates the process of using deep neural networks and transfer learning to classify images of flowers. The project uses [PyTorch's ResNet152](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/_modules/torchvision/models/resnet.html#resnet18) and Oxford University's [102 Category Flower Dataset](http://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/data/flowers/102/index.html) to achieve a 92% accuracy on the test set. The user can upload new images and get classification results through a command line interface.

![image classification example](images/image_classification_example_1.png)


3. **Unsupervised Learning Projects** - In this notebook unsupervised learning techniques are used on demographic and spending data to create distinct customer segments. The data and design for this project were provided by Arvato Financial Services. The project is divided in three steps:
  1. Preprocessing the data including feature generation and missing value handling
  2. Applying dimensionality reduction techniques for better performance
  3. Implementing clustering algorithms to segment customers with the goal of optimizing customer outreach for a mail order company.


4. **Disaster Response Pipeline Project** - This project creates a web app to aid disaster relief workers. It provides the user with an interface to input text messages and returns up to 36 different labels as they apply to the message content. Under the hood the web app is using a random forest algorithm that achieved 97% precision and 85% recall on the testing dataset (that said, performance varies a lot by label category). The web app also displays visualizations of the training data used to train the algorithm. Scripts to load, clean, and save the input data and retrain the classifier are also included in this folder. The dataset has been provided by FigureEight.

![text classification example](images/text_classification_example.png)
